# Deliverable 2 Team Write-Up

## Software Summary

The product is a web application that generates summer camp schedules for students using an inputted floor plan and user data. We are working on this with York Region Education Services, through one part-time and one full-time employee. The problem they presented us with was that last summer they had a hard time creating a schedule for their summer camp and matching said schedule to each room. Our website aims to simplify this process by automatically generating a schedule through individually inputted users or a mass import. This schedule will include breaks for students. We will allow the user to modify their room or swap students Users can choose a floor plan associated with each campus. The schedule will be determined based on the student’s ages, then friendships, and students will be placed in groups of 15-20. There are also specialty rooms like the computer room that each group wants to use once a week preferably 2-3 times. This schedule will be displayed on our website for easy access. Our website will also have a login system as only camp counselors and coordinators are meant to have access. This will include an administrator, where the person who creates the camp is an administrator and administrators can make anyone else an administrator. We have a Figma file as a useful diagram.

## Project Division

	We initially knew from the beginning that we would require a decent amount of code for each of the three main segments listed on the assignment sheet, being the frontend, backend, and database. There was a lot of requested functionality on the webpage from the original project description, such as the ability to upload various types of files with different information contained on them, as well as the ability to create, read, update, and delete any data entities that had been created in previous uses of the app. Due to the many different pages with unique functions attached to them, we decided to make our largest group (of 3) work on the frontend for this deliverable.
	One of the most important functions expected by the partner of the application is the ability to generate a summer camp schedule for the students based on given data and certain inputted criteria (i.e. keeping certain students apart/together during activities, certain room types only being usable for certain events, etc.) Due to the difficulty associated with a task like this, we dedicated another sub-team to the backend logic in particular, so multiple people can focus on coming up with algorithms to meet all the requirements set forth by the partner for this and whatever other functions require some backend processing. 
	Our group also felt it important to dedicate a team to the setup and deployment of the database, given the number of interlinked entities which need to be stored and the relationships between them that need to be remembered throughout the average use case of the app. We felt it important to make sure the schema used for the database was well thought-out ahead of time as making changes to it later in development would be problematic. The task of setting up the database along with communication lines all the way to the frontend, even with no logic involved, was large enough that we deemed it necessary to dedicate a subteam to.

 ## Sub-team Responsibility

- Sub team 1 responsibilities: We are responsible for developing the front-end for deliverable 2 we designed a UI without connection to the backend. We designed the page that generates the schedule and allows the user to view said schedule with an accompanying floor plan, and table that the user can use to gain additional information from through a sidebar. Overall with our project, we are responsible for the development of the front-end which we will complete with React and Bootstrap. Our team will design the UI for the Profile system that will send information to the backend allowing the user to login and sign up. The profile system will also allow for data importing which will be fed to the backend and database. This will be returned to the front end and can be viewed in the view schedule page which the user can view through an image, table and sidebar. We will also design a floor plan page allowing the user to edit the floorplan. There will be checks throughout our pages and we will design corresponding error messages for all of them.
- 
- Sub team 2 responsibilities: We are responsible for working on the backend server program. For D2, we first decided on an efficient structure that will make the backend APIs manageable and make the future integration with frontend and database easy. All user requests will be parsed by the frontend into appropriate service calls with parameters in JSON form. This prevents direct code-level intervention between frontend and backend. Similarly between server and database, the data will be parsed by a database API for transmission. We built a running server with several routers, controllers, and services. Since we didn't yet have access to frontend and database, these routers, controllers, and services are an example such that future implementations can adapt not only their form, but also part of their code. We also wrote all entities that will support future functionalities and connection with the database. We also added tests for entities and the scheduling service, which will also be templates for testing later.
- 
- Sub team 3 responsibilities: Our subteam was responsible for outlining, implementing, and deploying the database structure to be used in our application, and facilitating communication with SQL queries from the frontend to the database. In the frontend, we created a basic user interface where users can input information about core entities involved in our project and insert rows of this data into the respective relation in the database through HTTP requests. In the backend, we set up and deployed a backend server with a Restful API which translates the requests to database CRUD commands using Node.js. We also used Express, Docker, and a database with PostgreSQL. All of the backend was deployed in a Docker container on an EC2 instance on AWS. We made critical design decisions 
